![](.//media/image1.png)

\[1\]

**What are Supply Chain and Supply Chain Management?**

A supply chain is a network between a company and its suppliers to
produce and distribute a specific product to the final buyer. This
network includes different activities, people, entities, information,
and resources. The supply chain also represents the steps it takes to
get the product or the service from its original state to the customer.
[]{dir="rtl"}Companies develop supply chains so they can reduce their
costs and remain competitive in the business landscape.
[]{dir="rtl"}Supply chain management is a crucial process because an
optimized supply chain results in lower costs and a faster production
cycle.

Supply chain management(SCM) oversees each touchpoint of a company\'s
product or service from initial creation to the final sale. With so many
places along the supply chain that can add value through efficiencies or
lose value through increased expenses, proper SCM can increase revenues,
decrease costs, and impact a company\'s bottom line.

## Understanding Supply Chains

![](.//media/image2.jpg)

\[4\]

A supply chain involves a series of steps
to get a product or a service to the customer. The steps include moving
and transforming raw materials into finished products, transporting
those products, and distributing them to the end-user. The entities
involved in the supply chain include producers, vendors, warehouses,
transportation companies, distribution centers, and retailers. The
elements of a supply chain include all the functions that start with
receiving an order to meeting the customer's request.



These functions include product development, marketing,
operations, distribution network, finance, and customer service. Supply
chain management is a very important part of the business process. There
are many different links in this chain that require skill and expertise.

## How the Flow of Manufacturing Costs Works

The flow of manufacturing costs refers to the process of using materials
and labor to complete the final product that can be sold to a customer.
A "supply chain management system" can reduce the cost and complexity of
the manufacturing process, particularly for a manufacturer who uses many
parts. The manufacturer then incurs labor costs to run machinery and
perform other work using the materials. Once the items are completed,
they must be packaged and stored until they are sold to a customer. 

## Supply Chain and Deflation

The evolution and increased efficiencies of supply chains have played a
significant role in curbing inflation. As efficiencies in moving
products from A to B increase, the costs in doing so decrease, which
lowers the final cost to the consumer. While deflation is often regarded
as a negative concept, supply chain efficiencies are one of the few
examples where deflation is a good thing. As globalization continues,
supply chain efficiencies become more optimized, which keeps the
pressure on input prices.

## Supply Chain and COVID-19

The impact of the COVID-19 on the economy has been felt in nearly every
sector, however, supply chain strategy has been one of the hardest-hit
facets of every industry. Not only were companies\' supply chains put in
flux by ever-changing restrictions at national borders, which cut off
access to key suppliers, but also demand for certain products changed.
In late 2020, EY performed a survey of 200 senior-level supply chain
executives. The study pointed to three essential points: the deep,
negative effect of the pandemic felt by most respondents (72% reported a
negative impact), the shifting priorities for the supply chain industry
(\"increased visibility\" being the top priority for the next 12-36
months), and the fact that the pandemic has accelerated the transition
to digitization (64% of surveyed supply chain executives say digital
transformation will accelerate due to the pandemic). It\'s no doubt the
pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on how businesses think about
the supply chain. However, the shock to the system may help them usher
in a new era of increased communication and visibility between suppliers
as well as efficient use of technology to expedite supply chain
strategies.

## What Are the Key Steps in a Supply Chain?

1.  Planning the inventory and manufacturing processes to ensure supply
    and demand are balanced

2.  Manufacturing or sourcing materials needed to create the final
    product

3.  Assembling parts and testing the product

4.  Packaging the product for shipment (or holding in inventory until a
    later date)

5.  Transporting and delivering the finished product to the distributor,
    retailer, or consumer

6.  Providing customer service support for returned items

## How Supply Chain Management Works

Supply chain management(SCM) represents an effort by suppliers to
develop and implement supply chains that are as efficient and economical
as possible. Supply chain cover everything from production to product
development to the information systems needed to direct these
undertakings. Typically, SCM attempts to centrally control or link the
production, shipment, and distribution of a product. By managing the
supply chain, companies can cut excess costs and deliver products to the
consumer faster. This is done by keeping tighter control of internal
inventories, internal production, distribution, sales, and
the inventories of company vendors. SCM is based on the idea that nearly
every product that comes to market are the result of the efforts of
various organizations that make up a supply chain. Although supply
chains have existed for ages, most companies have only recently paid
attention to them as a value-adding tool to their operations.

**5 Parts of SCM**

The supply chain management coordinates the logistics of all aspects of
the supply chain which are:

-   The plan or strategy

-   The resources(of raw materials or services)

-   Manufacturing(focused on productivity and efficiency)

-   Delivery and logistics

-   The return system(for defective or unwanted products)

The supply chain manager tries to minimize shortages and keep costs
down. This job is not only about logistics and purchasing inventory.

# References

1.  <https://www.easternways.net/services/supply-chain/>

2.  <https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/scm.asp>

3.  <https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp>

4.  <https://unicsoft.com/blog/what-is-modern-supply-chain-management/>
